"votes","type","url","author","title","description","voter1"
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Why should I know ITIL/","Raj Dudi","Why should I know about ITIL ??","Abstract:

You are a die hard coder and loves playing with functions and
experimenting with new technology. You have a great application,
software or service but fails to deliver it to your clients, partners
or to best utilize service of your vendor. Then the problem lies in
process and not product.

This is same as someone speaking Urdu in USA and trying to sell bread
in Apple electronic store.  ITIL provides the foundation for quality
IT Service Management through documented, proven processes that cover
the entire Service Lifecycle. It is easy for organizations to learn,
tailor and implement to suit their environment.

Speaker:

Raj Dudi, works as Software Engineer with ERST Gmbh Hamburg. He has 6
years of expereince and spent most of his experience working with the
ITIL process.

Before moving to Germany in Oct 2011, he has worked in
India and in US. He has an ITILv3 certification.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Whats really to blame - A day in the life of a PHP app/","Jan Burkl","What's really to blame? - A day in the life of your PHP app","Abstract:

You know how to play the Blame Game when Production is broken?
Probably you have good reasons for that. Nevertheless, it's better to
work out what really went wrong - fast. See in this session how a new
PHP application can be deployed flawlessly, scaling up and down and
can be managed automatically. Discover how Dev &amp; Ops can work
together, in concert, if the worst nightmare happens and the
application breaks.

Speaker:

Jan Burkl
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Two Point Oh My - Release engineering for everyone/","Wes Mason","Two Point Oh My! Release engineering for everyone.","Abstract:

With continuous integration, continuous deployment and packaging
systems that just install all the latest shiny for us, we don't need
to worry about releases any more..do we?

Release engineering is an important aspect of any projects development
t and deployment cycle. From testing to building, packaging and
releasing, a version number is not just an arbitrary string and
relying on one person to understand how your product makes it to
customers is a recipe for disaster.

Walk to this way and we'll explore methodologies and tooling for
managing releases and solutions to common problems such as:


Dependency tracking and avoiding stale dependencies without breaking builds.
Documenting builds and release processes for both devs and ops.
Understanding when to automate..and when not.



Speaker:

Wes Mason
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Testing as a Service - How we used OpenStack to automate our entire dev and testing environment/","Uri Cohen","Testing as a Service - How we used OpenStack to automate our entire dev and testing environment","Abstract:

Building and testing distributed software platforms can be a tedious
and daunting task. Achieving good coverage can be very hard since a
lot of factors affect the overall testability and coverage of a
system.  Some problems only become apparent on a distributed setup,
such as timing and network issues, etc. In this session we&rsquo;ll explain
how we used OpenStack and Cloudify to implement and automate real
integration testing (as in, no mocks) for our entire product suite,
and how we significantly improved our overall coverage and
reliability.

Speaker:

Uri heads the Product and Developer community efforts at GigaSpaces,
and is a frequent speaker at various industry events and meetups. Most
recently, Uri co-organized the first DevOps conference in Israel. Uri
has spoken at QCon New York, Cassandra Summit, CloudStack
Collaboration Conference, QCon London, QCon San Francisco, CloudBeat
and Devoxx, among others.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/StartupOps/","David Mytton","StartOps: Growing an ops team from 1 founder","Abstract:

Bootstrapped startups don't have the luxury of a full team of ops engineers available to respond to issues 24/7, so how can you survive on your own? This talk will tell the story of how to run your infrastructure as a single founder through to growing that into a team of on call engineers. It will include some interesting war stories as well as tips and suggestions for how to run ops at a startup.

Speaker:

David Mytton is the founder of server monitoring tool, Server Density, where he has been using MongoDB in production for almost 4 years. He has been programming in PHP and Python for over 10 years, regularly speaks about MongoDB (including starting the London MongoDB User Group), co-founded the Open Rights Group and can often be found cycling in London or drinking tea in Japan.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Shipping DevOps/","Daniel Spilker","Shipping DevOps","Abstract:

Driven by the need to move quickly CoreMedia's customers are demanding
deployment automation and continuous delivery. Consequently, as a
vendor of an enterprise content management system, CoreMedia is
incorporating support for deployment tools and processes directly into
its product.

The presentation covers the challenges that CoreMedia has been facing
and the solutions the engineers have applied when advancing the
product to integrate with automation tools and processes. The
challenges included that the development teams had only limited
operations experience and could only acquire knowledge from CoreMedia
professional services and customers in slow feedback cycles. The
product is deployed on various platforms, each requiring their
toolchains, thus generating complex requirements.

To overcome the obstacles, a dedicated development team has been
ramped-up to concentrate on deployment automation and continuous
delivery. They created automated setups for CoreMedia QA and CI
systems to gain operations experience and establish a fast in-house
feedback cycle.

Speaker:

Daniel Spilker
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Podularity FTW/","Tim Lossen","Podularity FTW!","Abstract:

In 'The Connected Company' (O'Reilly, 2012), Dave Gray describes how
pods -- 'small, autonomous units' -- are the basic building blocks of
a flexible, scalable and resilient organisation. At Wooga, we have
used pods (though we call them 'game teams') as the main
organizational unit from the beginning, and this has led quite
naturally to a strong devops culture.

In this talk, I will tell how this decision came about, how it has
played out, which practical benefits the approach provides -- but
also, what problems we have run into. As a bonus, I will report on a
recent attempt to use podularity as the technical system architecture,
where scalability and resilience are major concerns as well.

Speaker:

Tim Lossen
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Our DevOps Story - Chef and Rails for customer cloud control/","Steven De Coeyer and Joren De Groof","Our DevOps story: Chef + Rails for customer cloud control","Abstract:

In our hosting company, we use Chef to manage all user- and web app
configuration on our shared and private hosting environments. We've
put this power in the hands of our end users through Sock, our control
panel. What first started out as an automation tool for managing new
servers, is now our core server configuration tool for us as well as
our customers and their customers. Where a DirectAdmin, cPanel or
Plesk failed in giving us an overhead management is where our Sock +
Chef solution picked up. With Ruby Developers and Sysadmins literally
at the same table, we were able to concurrently build the two sides of
this story.

Our talk will show how we use Chef to continuously manage not only the
servers but everything on it (accounts, webapps, ssh keys, Solr,
Varnish, databases, ...). We want to show how we use Chef in a dynamic
way to shuffle and manage user- and web app configurations across a
large pool of shared and dedicated servers.

Speaker:

Steven (Ops) and Joren (Dev) work at Openminds, a Belgian B2B hosting
company offering custom cloud solutions.  We will both be giving this
presentation because we cover both the Dev and Ops in our talk.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Ops Around The World/","David Mytton","Ops Around the World","Abstract:

In the old days, data centre selection was based on proximity to a data centre and when things went wrong part of the recovery time calculations included how long it would take to drive there. Now you can deploy servers in almost every continent in a few minutes.

This talk will examine the challenges of geographically diverse deployments. From technical concerns like latency, deployment lead times and systems management to social issues like on-call rotations, follow the Sun provisioning and trusting your data centre techs.

Speaker:

David Mytton is the founder of server monitoring tool, Server Density, where he has been using MongoDB in production for almost 4 years. He has been programming in PHP and Python for over 10 years, regularly speaks about MongoDB (including starting the London MongoDB User Group), co-founded the Open Rights Group and can often be found cycling in London or drinking tea in Japan.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Node.js meets Jenkins, Gradle and Chef/","Evgeny Goldin","Node.js meets Jenkins, Gradle and Chef!","Abstract:

Have you ever had to automate a Node.js application deployment? One
way of doing so would be to use Node.js hosting providers, but what if
you decide to host your applications in-house? As it turns out,
automating a Node.js operation is not as easy as it sounds (you can
trust me on that) and here at Trademob, we tried several approaches
before settling on a combination of tools. This presentation is
targeted at Node.js developers and Dev Ops engineers. I'm going to
show what we tried, what worked and what did not work. I'll then
present a setup based on Jenkins, Gradle and Chef that we now
successfully use for testing, deployment and monitoring of Node.js
applications. You'll learn from our mistakes and see how we made it
all work in the end. Most importantly, you'll be able to do the same
as us - since all tools and plugins required are free and
open-sourced.

Come to this session and make your Node.js automation a breeze!

Speaker:

Evgeny Goldin
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Make a SOLID Software Architecture/","Ole Michaelis / Soenke Ruempler","Make it SOLID - Software Architecture for System Administrators","Abstract:

Starting with Chef or Puppet as a System Administrator will lead you
to a problem where you are not sure what&rsquo;s the best solution of a
problem in terms of software architecture.

We will give you a brief overview of general well known and battle
tested software patterns which also applies to infrastructure
management code. We&rsquo;ll also show Antipatterns and best practices.

Speakers:

Ole Michaelis - https://twitter.com/codestars
Soenke Ruempler - https://twitter.com/s0enke
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/How we built and deployed the Honshu way/","Wes Mason","Island Life: How we built and deployed the Honshū way","Abstract:

Honsh&#363;, or Honshuu, is the largest island of Japan.  It is also the
codename for the complete rewrite of of a large distributed SaaS
product that has been over a year in the making, embracing a service
orientated architecture similar to those popularised by Amazon and
Netflix.  At the heart of Honshuu is the idea that every service is an
island. Any island can talk to another, using strict traditions and
customs (REST API), and almost any island can communicate freely with
the wider world via intermediaries and guardians of custom (API
wrappers, thin layers, and load balancers).  Each island is the main
land, looking after it's own concerns, only caring that other islands
can communicate with it, but not what goes on outside.

This is a cultural shift away from other ways of working more than
technological. Knowing when to spin out a new 'island' and making sure
it can be communicated with in the same fashion as it's neighbours,
from common build strategies regardless of base technology, to
involving ops as a guiding principle from the very first steps as to
how an island should be built.

In day to day practice this means several stand ups (or Google
Hangouts) between developers and teams, and maintaining dependency
maps between services (islands) and their REST API specifications
(like trade agreements between islands), but despite overheads the
payoffs in scaling and maintainability can be huge.

Speaker:

Wes Mason
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Implementing DevOps/","Alex Papadimoulis","Implementing DevOps… and Making it Actually Stick","Abstract:

If you&rsquo;ve ever been involved in promoting cultural changes within an
organization, you may have experienced something even more
disheartening than flat-out rejection: a full rollback of cultural
change and a decade-long resentment of anyone remotely associated with
the implementation. This has happened at countless organizations with
agile, with SOA, with virtualization &ndash; and it&rsquo;s starting to happen
with DevOps.

How can such as simple idea that&rsquo;s been so successful at so many
companies become such a resounding failure at others? It&rsquo;s not the
organization, and it&rsquo;s certainly not DevOps. The problem lies in the
implementation, and ultimately, with its promoters and champions.

In this talk, I&rsquo;ll discuss both technical and organizational
strategies for a successful long-term DevOps implementation, go over a
few big failures at big companies, and cover the common and
not-so-common pitfalls when promoting this type of cultural change.

Speaker:

Alex Papadimoulis
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/How to form a Devops team/","Alexander Schwartz","How to form a DevOps team?","Abstract:

Did you ever worked within an operations team that was overwhelmed
by firefighting? And late deployments and no time for
improvements?  Well, there is good news for you. You are not the
only one. And it can be changed to the better.

Based on my experience at Nokia I show what might help; how an
emerging DevOps approach succeeded to overcome a situation like
this.

We will take a look on the 2-year journey of my DevOps team, and
how it improved the delivery frequency and platform availability
significantly. For us 'Baby Step' improvements played a very
crucial role.

We will see how the team changed over time, and take a look at its
forming-storming-norming-performing cycle.  Furthermore the
interactions, tensions with the other teams are worth a glimpse,
as well as the (positive) impact of the DevOps team on the
organization around.

This talk will also cover how the interpretation of roles,
responsibilities and job profiles changed notably over time

Speaker:

Alex' bread and butter comes from helping software companies to
deliver to production faster.

Since 2011 he leads a DevOps/Delivery team at Nokia L&amp;C in Berlin,
and fosters Continuous Delivery, Agile, Kanban/Lean and Agile
Testing.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/How the QA team got Prezi ready for DevOps/","Peter Neumark","How the QA team got Prezi ready for DevOps","Abstract:

Prezi would not be where it is today if it wasn't for DevOps and
continuous delivery. And for that, we can thank the QA department,
since without tests we can depend on, the operations guys would be
nervous having 20+ deploys to production per day by people who don't
understand every part of Prezi's infrastructure. The classical DevOps
balance between developers (who are measured by their speed) and
operations (whose goal is maximizing availability) needs a third
entity, QA, to make sure the user-perceived quality of the product is
acceptable.

In the beginning, the Prezi codebase was poorly tested, as the primary
goal was getting something working out the door as soon as
possible. As the volume of untested code began to grow, product
quality deteriorated. In response, the first QA hire, and eventually
the establishment of a dedicated QA team came to pass. This team made
a major contribution to how Prezi works in three ways:


QA established quality as a value within the organization, now taken seriously by every employee.
QA made it easy for developers to write tests by creating the necessary tools and documentation.
QA made us realize that if a bad commit got deployed, we should blame our lack of tests, not the author of the faulty code.



Similar to QA, the DevOps culture at Prezi has also matured
considerably. Today, there is no longer a QA or a dedicated DevOps
team, as each of the product development teams have assumed
responsibility for the quality and operations aspects of their output.

The topic of my talk is the journey from the beginnings of Prezi to
where we are today from the vantage points of QA and DevOps. Emphasis
will be placed on the organizational, people-centric problems and
solutions, but I will also share the technical aspects of how we work.

Speaker:

Peter Neumark
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Help we have now more time/","Alexander Schwartz","Help, we have no more time for testing!","Abstract:

[Ignite (or presentation)]

When introducing Continuous Delivery most teams are facing problems
like 'How to fit in our 4-days QA phase in a daily release rhythm?'
Alex will cover a different aspects: WHEN to test? WHAT to test? WHAT
NOT to test? WHICH technique to be used?

Speaker:

Alex' bread and butter comes from helping software companies to
deliver to production faster.

Since 2011 he leads a DevOps/Delivery team at Nokia L&amp;C in Berlin,
and fosters Continuous Delivery, Agile, Kanban/Lean and Agile
Testing.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/DevTools team at Etsy/","Daniel Schauenberg","DevTools team at Etsy","Abstract:

The Etsy DevTools team was created to foster collaboration between
engineering and operations and also between different teams within
engineering. We provide the tools to make it easy for everyone to
deploy, reaching from deployment tools to developer VMs and CI
infrastructure automation. Our main concern is to make processes fast
and simple to enable developers to do their work with maximum
happiness.

The talk will be about what are the main concerns of the DevTools team
and its place between Engineering and Operations. I will give examples
of how processes were improved and how we introduced tools which make
it simple and safe to give developers access to production servers and
data without causing ops headaches.

Speaker:

Daniel Schauenberg is a software engineer at Etsy's DevTools team. He
spends his days automating infrastructure with Chef, making sure
everybody can deploy and removing friction in processes where
possible.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/DevOps with JEE/","Romain Pelisse","DevOps with JEE","Abstract:
'Bring the power of DevOps to your JEE deployment using RHQ'

The DevOps initiative, which brings operation closer to development team, has been gaining more and more adopters, throughout the IT Industry. The benefits of having Ops cooperating closely with developers have been clearly demonstrated in many cloud based companies, such as Amazon EC2.

However, despite those successes, many companies, especially the ones running complex JEE applications, have difficulty implementing such approach. One challenge here is the generally that the actual team are separated or even localised in different physical facilities. An other one is that admins running the JEE apps generally have a hard time figuring out why the laters are failing, while the developers can't access the application and gather the informations he needs to support them.

The purpose to this talk is to expose a innovative way to facilitate developers / ops collaboration, on JEE or Java based application, using the Open Source product RHQ, a monitoring and operation control tool.

Speaker:
Romain Pelisse
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/DevOps3.0/","Marcel Wolf, Felix Sperling","DevOps 3.0 - Where we are now and what we found out on the way","Abstract:

Immobilienscout is a midsized organisation with ~150 Devs and ~40 Ops.
The focus of the talk is not from a managers point of view but instead a
snapshot from a Dev- and an Ops-guy, who switched roles for a few months.

It seems that the DevOps culture is quite sucessful and well established
at Immobilienscout. We would like to talk about what we learned and the
insights we had. We want to share how we are doing DevOps and what cool
stuff is happening in order to be an inspiration for you and to guide
what to aim for at your company.

Looking back we want to reflect on the already existing culture and
preconditions that were necessary for DevOps to happen.

When doing DevOps or Agile one of the most important parts is empowering
the team. Which in return will bring many not so obvious consequences
and greatly change the way the team works and the relationship between
management and team. We also want to share some of our learnings on that
topic.

This talk will be about


 the current state of the DevOps culture at Immobilienscout
 the important preconditions that made it possible for DevOps to happen
 the not so obvious issues that will pop up if you do DevOps and beyond



Speaker:
Marcel Wolf, Felix Sperling
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Deployment scripts with Fabric-From the naive to the non-so naive approach/","Jose A. Martin","Deployment scripts with Fabric. From the naive to the non-so naive approach","Abstract:

This talk is about good practices on the deployment process,
basically. I will expose how the deployments evolve all over the time
from a small startup scenario to a medium company and from a small
single script to a infrastructure as code paradigm.

I will use concrete examples for a django, wsgi, nginx, mysql typical setup.

In my opinion, the talk is interesting for everyone that is building a
product and obviously has to release it at some point. It is really
technical and based on a python technology stack but the patterns can
be applied on other environments.

Speaker:

Jose A. Martin, is a devops and backend engineer working for a startup
here in Berlin. The talk is based on his personal experience in the
last 2 years.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Continuous Delivery with Jenkins and Cloudify/","Nati Shalom","Continuous Delivery with Jenkins and Cloudify (FastConnect)","Abstract:

Continuous delivery is not an option anymore for organizations and
companies that implement online services and products. The ability to
rollout new code changes quickly and as frequently as needed is an
important business enabler. In this session we&rsquo;ll review the current
options for CD in the cloud, and learn how to implement an automated
CD process using Cloudify and Jenkins.

Speaker:

Nati is the Founder and CTO of GigaSpaces, he was recently recognized
as a Top Cloud Computing Blogger for CIO&rsquo;s by The CIO Magazine and he
is also the founder of the IGTCLoud.  Nati is also a frequent
presenter at industry conferences. He has spoken at IBM Information on
Demand, Big Data Spain, DevOpsCon, NoSQL Now, UP Cloud, Computing
Conference, OpenStack Israel, and Cloud Mafia San Francisco, among
others.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Building your own OpsWorks with Chef and Cloudify/","Uri Cohen","Building your own OpsWorks with Chef and Cloudify","Abstract:

AWS OpsWorks is a DevOps solution for managing applications of any
scale or complexity on the AWS cloud. With OpsWorks you can manage
your complete application lifecycle, including resource provisioning,
configuration management, application deployment, software updates,
monitoring, etc. However, OpsWorks is only applicable to AWS. What if
you could create and manage a similar service on top of any cloud? In
this session we will introduce Cloudify, a new open source PaaS
framework. Cloudify takes a different approach by using recipes (as
opposed to heavyweight coding and platform extension) as a means to
introduce new application stacks to the PaaS layer. You can think of
it as extending the recipe model of Chef to support application level
concerns such as orchestration, dependency management, multi-tier and
multi-host deployments, monitoring and auto-scaling. This session will
introduce how Cloudify leverages Chef as a key enabler for an open
PaaS framework.

Speaker:

Uri heads the Product and Developer community efforts at GigaSpaces,
and is a frequent speaker at various industry events and meetups. Most
recently, Uri co-organized the first DevOps conference in Israel. Uri
has spoken at QCon New York, Cassandra Summit, CloudStack
Collaboration Conference, QCon London, QCon San Francisco, CloudBeat
and Devoxx, among others.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Building cross region and cross cloud high availability into your app/","Nati Shalom","Building cross region and cross cloud high availability into your app","Abstract:

A real life case: Achieving high levels of availability and disaster
recovery in a cloud environment requires the implementation of
patterns and practices that introduce redundancy through multi-zone,
multi-region, and multi-cloud deployments. As we move towards
implementing higher availability, we cannot escape the direct increase
in the accidental complexity of the deployment architecture resulting
from lack of cloud portability and deployment lifecycle automation. We
present a solution approach implemented by a real-world user for
achieving high availability and disaster recovery using the Cloudify
open source framework. This approach applies to not just AWS, but also
other public clouds and private cloud environments such as Eucalyptus
. The resulting reference architecture provides portable PostgreSQL
replication and disaster recovery as well as application tier
scalability across zones, regions, and public/private clouds through a
unified deployment workflow.

Speaker:

Nati is the Founder and CTO of GigaSpaces, he was recently recognized
as a Top Cloud Computing Blogger for CIO&rsquo;s by The CIO Magazine and he
is also the founder of the IGTCLoud.  Nati is also a frequent
presenter at industry conferences. He has spoken at IBM Information on
Demand, Big Data Spain, DevOpsCon, NoSQL Now, UP Cloud, Computing
Conference, OpenStack Israel, and Cloud Mafia San Francisco, among
others.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Automated deployments with robots/","Ole Michaelis","Automated deployments with robots","Abstract:

Continuous deployment is the high art of devops. So there are several ways to achieve this: many use a one-click deployment tool like &lsquo;Deployinator&rsquo;, or something self-written. This talk should give some insights about how we at my old employer Digital Pioneers N.V. deploy our apps controlled by an awesome chat robot named hubot (by github). It will also show you how to simply do it the way we did it!

Speaker:

Ole Michaelis
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Anatomy of an Effective Alert for DevOps/","Berkay Mollamustafaoglu","Anatomy of an Effective Alert for DevOps","Abstract:

One of the outcomes of embracing the DevOps philosophy, has been
developers participating on-call rotations and receiving alert
notifications. Having the developers who have developed the code and
have through understanding of the inner-workings of the applications
have been invaluable in resolving potential problems before any impact
on users, however sending alerts that are high in quantity but low in
quality to the developers can have a very detrimental impact on the
developer productivity and cause alert fatigue.

Ensuring developers that are participating in operational processes do
not get bogged down with alerts demand high quality alerts . This talk
will make the case for the need to design alerts and layout some of
the practices that can be employed by ops organizations to improve
quality of alerts created by the monitoring systems.

Speaker:

Berkay Mollamustafaoglu (@berkay)
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Advanced Puppet configuration management - code your config/","Martin Alfke","Advanced Puppet configuration management - "code your config"","Abstract:

The presentation is mostly covering Puppet but also reflects peoples
attitude who work with puppet in companies (Developers, Sysadmins,
QA).

This talk will cover some advanced puppet technologies and describes
possible solutions on how to get the expected results.


Environment - 'admin's and dev's cooperate'
Modules - 'plug things together simple'
Templates - 'code your config'
Augeas - 'clean your lenses'
Multi Master - 'no one can server two masters!'
Masterless - 'you shall have no master'
ENC + Hiera - 'data, data, data'
PuppetDB - 'getting it all'
Dashboard - 'management needs graphs'



Speaker:

Martin is PuppetLabs partner in Germany an conducts official Puppet trainings.
He started working with Puppet in 2007 and implemented many Puppet installations at IT and automotive companies.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Administer the devops pill across the enterprise/","Sriram Narayan","Administer the devops pill across the enterprise","Abstract:

Devops addresses the last mile of continuous delivery. It advocates
the tearing down of silos between development and operations. It kind
of assumes that silos don't exist elsewhere. This is often not true in
enterprise IT where the number of silos correlates well with the
number of vice presidents. This anti-pattern of org design takes two
forms. One is when you have a VP sw-dev, VP Data, VP configuration
management, VP Testing, VP UX, VP Deployment. The other is when you
have a product manager along with a VP Sales, VP Marketing, VP Support
and VP Training. On the other hand, an org design based on true
cross-functional teams has teams accountable for business outcomes and
puts one person in clear charge of each team. This part of getting
things right can be classifed as CD for execs and basically involves
applying the devops pattern to general org design. There is also a
part two.

Tooling can also hinder cross functional behaviour. Especially when
access to tools are granted on a strict need-to-use basis. So for
example, only sales guys get salesforce access. Or when marketing
disallows self-service publishing from the product teams. Or when the
devs use one tool for continuous integration and the deployment teams
uses a completely different disconnected tool for release
automation. Sometimes commercial considerations (licensing costs)
encourage this behaviour but it doesn't serve the cause of tearing
down silos. So we need a new kind of culture that restricts access to
tools only where unavoidable but is open otherwise.

Speaker:

Sriram Narayan is Principal Consultant with ThoughtWorks India. He is
currently the owner of features related to deployment on our
continuous delivery product called 'Go'.
",""
"","talk","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/A grails puppet ecosystem in 5 countries/","Christoph Beckmann","A grails puppet eco-system in 5 countries","Abstract:

On the Lesson learned presentations about how we work and manage to
run a high traffic system in 5 countries with more then 35 people in
Product&amp;Development.  To this challange we work with Scrum&amp;Kanban in 5
Devs teams, manage our infrastructur in puppet and share the same code
base with all 5 offices.  The presentation will give some insights on
how we organize the everyday life and will also give an overview on the
learnings from using a innovative technologie stack in a professional
environment including: grails, postgres, mongoDB, puppet, activeMQ,
bamboo, ehCache, terracotta, graylog &amp; git.

kaufDA is a leading German site for local search and local promotion
search. The company enables users to look for the best local sales
online, search brochures of local retailers and find stores near
them. In germany we operate with several hundreds of requests per
second, handle millions of unique visitors each month and deliver more
then TBs each day for local deals and promotions.

Speaker:

Christoph Beckmann
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/We love alerts at 2am/","Gabor Veszi","We love alerts at 2am","Abstract:

When I joined Prezi I was promised that I don&rsquo;t have to be on-call
ever. We promised this to everyone who joined our team. Last year we
decided that we&rsquo;d like to be on-call and we are really happy about
this.

Through the story of the evolution of our monitoring system I&rsquo;d like
talk about culture.

Last year we doubled our active user count. As more users mean more
responsibility, we had to concentrate on improving availability while
simultaneously scaling our backend. One important component of this
process is improvements in our monitoring system. I&rsquo;d like to show how
a good monitoring system enables happy and effective component owners.

Originally we had the traditional, entirely separate Dev and Ops
silos: we contracted with a company that was responsible for
operations, and they used their own monitoring system. We added our
own application metrics to this system, and when they received an
alert they tried to solve the issue. As you can imagine, this
arrangement had some problems. We have since got rid of these silos,
bringing our ops in house, and are now much happier.

In this talk I'd like to present what we did to improve our monitoring
situation in small steps: we created our own monitoring system that
makes it trivial for developers to add checks of our complex system.
We introduced the concept of component ownership, and even though our
developers must be woken up for some alerts at night, everyone is more
satisfied than before.

The talk will go into detail about the system itself as well as the
social aspects of the arrangement.

Speaker:

Gabor Veszi
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Teaming DevOps/","Mario Martelli","Teaming DevOps","Abstract:

There is an old thesis saying that the same amount of time is needed for
the last 10% of an IT project as for the first 90%. One of the reasons
for this is that most of a project&rsquo;s integration aspects are commonly
postponed to the end. Even in today&rsquo;s agile projects there is seldom an
infrastructure specialist as a fixed team member.

Only if you combine the infrastructure, quality assurance and
development skills in a team you will be able to address those
integration aspects from the very beginning.  And if you do this you
will get the real DevOps: The Team!

Speaker:

Mario Martelli
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Operations as a Service - handling traditional enterprise projects/","Christian Theune","Operations as a Service - handling traditional enterprise projects","Abstract:

The 'cloud' has opened the traditional 'big enterprise' environments
for outsourcing parts of their IT that has been kept in-house for a
long time. Large companies and public institutions are looking for
ways to save money, receive higher quality services, and become more
flexible.

At gocept we provide an 'operations as a service' hosting environment
that picks up infrastructure development and application operations
tasks for traditional enterprise-style projects: intranet, extranet
and integration applications, corporate web sites, and such.

Over the last years we have served large enterprise and public
institutions by applying and researching DevOps-style processes, FLOSS
technology, and computer science to achieve those goals.

Our personal goals include keeping a small, agile team, as well as
integrating with external project developers and the customer.

We will look at both the day-to-day and the less frequent challenges we meet:


communication
keeping customer applications up-to-date on a moving platform
educating
bridging the gap of operational responsibilities in a multi-party project
negotiating trade-offs
communication
in-house production depth
managing deployments
interfacing with corporate legal and financial requirements
helping customers consume the operational flexibility they ask for
communication
infrastructure and platform development
FLOSS community interactions
growing with no silver bullet
trusting our instincts



Our talk will substantiate our experiences based on reliable anecdotal
evidence from real, ongoing customer projects.

Speaker:

Christian Theune, Christian Kauhaus
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Hiring for skill and culture - qualities beyond Dev and Ops/","Florian Thiel","Hiring for skill and culture - qualities beyond Dev and Ops","Abstract:

As you probably know, looking for a Dev with Ops experience
or an Ops person with a GitHub repo is not enough. There are
two main criteria when hiring someone for a DevOps organisation:
social/technical skills and the consequences for the organisations
culture.

I will outline things to look for in hires and share some stories
from a large organisation moving towards DevOps.

Speaker:

Florian Thiel
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Enterprise DevOps Applied/","Michael Hüttermann","Enterprise DevOps Applied: Transforming a supertanker into a speedboat","Abstract:

How to transform a supertanker into a speedboat. This ignite session
illustrates key patterns, lessons learned and also pitfalls of introducing
DevOps in traditional IT enterprise context.

Speaker:
Michael H&uuml;ttermann
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/DevOps at Runtime/","Leon Rosenberg","DevOps@Runtime","Abstract:

The term devops not only describes a new development philosophy or
company culture, in the production system it all comes down to people,
devs and ops, who develop and maintain the platform.

The talk is about the people and how those people with their different
mindsets, interests and skills can be brought to work together and be
one team. The talk is based on my real life experience with high
traffic platforms in germany in last 10 years (friendscout, parship,
c-date etc) This is not a MoSKito talk, but MoSKito will make an
occurence ;-)

Speaker:

Leon Rosenberg
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Chatops in Practice/","Jesse Newland","ChatOps in Practice: Integrating PagerDuty with Hubot","Abstract:

Detailing how GitHub uses Hubot to interact with PagerDuty, including inspiring a culture of shift trading by making it ridiculously easy to take other team member's shifts.

Speaker:
Jesse Newland
",""
"","ignite","http://devopsdays.org/events/2013-berlin/proposals/Applied Devops/","Matthew Jones","Applied Devops","Abstract:

From small businesses, to public-listed companies and not-for-profits,
I am being asked the same questions: What can we do to apply devops
and what does that look like for our organisations?

Drawing on experience from various organisations, I will talk about
patterns that help (or hinder) businesses in applying devops practices
from a 'on the ground' point of view.

Using various techniques from within teams, I'll go through examples
that will help break down the barriers, improve communication and
reach that 'nirvana'.

Finally, talk about the challenges that organisations face once they
have reached that 'nirvana' and what is next for the organisations and
the community.

Speaker:

Matthew Jones. (On slideshare).

Proposal could be held as panel discussion, presentation, ignite or openspace.
",""
