It's almost time for DevOpsDays Chicago, happening October 7th and 8th! We'll kick off sessions at 9am sharp each day, with registration, breakfast, and sponsor tables opening at 8am. Please make sure you arrive early as you'll need to go through a security check (have your photo ID handy) in the lobby before you get to the registration area.

The organizers are so excited to welcome you! Here are a few details you'll want to review before the event.

Code of Conduct
Respect and empathy are core DevOps values. Make sure you've read our code of conduct! We will enforce it. http://devopsdays.org/events/2014-chicago/conduct/

Registration
Please check in with Willis Tower Security on the ground floor (have your photo ID handy) before coming upstairs.  You'll then take an elevator to the 33rd floor lobby where you'll switch to a second elevator that goes to the 37th floor.  The Registration desk with your badge and T-shirt will be on the 37th floor. We will print your first and last name on your badge, which you'll pick up at registration upon arrival. If you want your Twitter handle and/or organizational affiliation on your badge, please log in to Eventbrite and edit them into your registration before 11:59pm CDT on Friday, October 3, as we'll be printing the badges this weekend. To edit your info use the “View Order” link on the Current Orders page. If you have trouble doing that, please just reply to this mail with the information.

Location
We will start each day on the 37th floor of the Willis Tower. The address is 233 S. Wacker Drive, Chicago.  Take care not to go into the Skydeck entrance.  While the view is fantastic, you won't see much DevOps from the top floor.

http://devopsdays.org/events/2014-chicago/img/willis.png

For those of you staying in the conference hotel (the La Quinta Chicago Downtown), the hotel is located about 3 blocks north of the venue. From La Quinta, head south on Franklin Street. The entrance to the Willis Tower is on the west side of Franklin just south of Adams.

http://devopsdays.org/events/2014-chicago/img/laquinta.png

Parking
There is parking available in the Tower Self Park garage near the venue, however, it is quite pricey (>$40/day), so we highly recommend taking public transportation.

Transportation
From ORD, it's a 45 minute trip on the Blue line ($5) to the Monroe stop, then a 0.4 mi walk West to Franklin, then South to the tower.  From MDW, take the Orange line (also $2.25) 30 minutes in to the Quincy/Wells stop, then one block West to the tower.  Both trains start at the respective airports, so you can't go the wrong direction.  You could also take a taxi from the airport, but it'll be much more expensive and not much faster.

Once you're in the city you can use Curb or Hailo to call a taxi in Chicago, and Uber (including UberX) and Lyft are available as taxi alternatives.

Tuesday Night Social Event
We have a great event planned for all of you on Tuesday night. The sessions break at ~5:30pm and you can head off to dinner on your own (or head home for a bit), but join us at Headquarters Beercade River North from 6:30pm-9:30pm. Transportation will be provided from the Willis Tower to Headquarters, or you can make your own way there to take in some Chicago architecture.

http://devopsdays.org/events/2014-chicago/img/hqrn.png

At Headquarters we'll have appetizers, snacks, beer, wine, cocktails, and non-alcoholic beverages, old-school cabinet arcade games, and pinball. We'll have some contests and giveaways with prizes like O'Reilly books and RaspberryPi Starter Kits, plus music that doesn't drown you out, party games like DevOps Against Humanity and Werewolf, and more! This is a fun way to relax and get to know the other attendees. Wear your conference badge for admittance.

Schedule
The program for this two-day event promises a great time; just look at that lineup of speakers! We'll be live-streaming the 30min talks and Ignites. Note that we'll feed you breakfast and lunch both days! And consider proposing topics at Open Space - DevOpsDays is all about participation and what you can take away from the event.

Social Media
The conference Twitter hashtag will be simply #devopsdays. Please tweet, blog, and otherwise share what you learn with everyone who isn't able to attend but could benefit from your experience!

Food & Drink
Continental breakfast, lunch, and non-stop coffee, pop, and water will be served on-site at the conference.

As you're searching for dinner and late-night options outside the Tuesday social, Yelp is a great source in downtown Chicago. Calling ahead or using OpenTable is a good idea as wait times at popular places can exceed an hour.

Some local favorites (unfortunately, none are really walk-able from the venue)

Kinzie Chophouse - 400 N. Wells St.
Little Goat - 820 W Randolph St.
Sushi Dokku - 823 W Randolph St.
Tanoshii - 720 W Randolph St.
Au Cheval - 800 W Randolph St.
Nellcote - 833 W Randolph St.
The Gage - 24 S Michigan Ave.
Giordano's (If you want Chicago Deep Dish!) - 223 W Jackson Blvd.
Avec - 615 W Randolph St.
City Winery - 1200 W Randolph St.
Lou Mitchell's (if you want a more serious breakfast) - 565 W Jackson Blvd



Sponsors
This event is made possible by our amazing sponsors! See all sponsors and links to sites at http://devopsdays.org/events/2014-chicago/.


